listen imagine watching a 200 million
dollar blockbuster
emphasizing your country something meant
to represent your culture
yet it's dubbed because it wasn't even
filmed in your language
obviously it's an american blockbuster
but what is a chinese legend has been
targeted by disney into becoming one of
their biggest media franchises
and even though this is one of the most
expensive live action remakes it became
disney's first big vod that they put on
disney plus with an extra price tag
since it cost so much
further proving they really didn't care
about artemis fowl so if your country
has disney plus you probably got the
chance to see it
if it doesn't you know shout out our
sponsor sharkvpn because it turns out
that the tale of mulan isn't just
representing chinese culture
but as a director puts it the culture of
disney
let me explain now in case you don't
know much about the history of the
chinese folklore
screen rants and the things actually
have videos that they copied off from
john solo who breaks down the origins of
mulan so i would definitely go check
those out but it was in the 90s when
disney got a hold of the tale obviously
there had been several silent
and black and white films on the legend
but putting the disney name was massive
i mean look at coco people acted like
this was the first movie of its kind
even though book of life had just been
released not long before that said
disney had trouble pushing their chinese
feature
in china in 98 china almost banned the
film completely because disney had
previously released a movie about tibet
called kundun
which pretty much every studio was
ignoring to not upset their sales in the
east
but surprisingly disney took it on it
was directed by marty scorsese and it
followed the dalai lama's escape from
tibet
where chinese communists were invading
oppressing and
re-educating the native people it wasn't
english but the behind the scenes of the
movie is pretty cool
showing the amount of detail that they
went into it from getting the actual
dalai lama
to help with the script the sets the
costumes to even casting his family and
a bunch of non-actors
but because it called out china they
were angrier at disney than george lucas
and were set on revenge
they practically iced the release of
mulan delaying the movie for an entire
year
in order to hurt its box office and
we're also threatening to halt
all disney animated broadcasts overseas
and then they even ban scorsese from
china
did disney back you up when the film
came out i mean did they really put
themselves behind it to try and sell it
well now i know i scorsese left that
right in the departed
china has become a massive market
literally it's on the horizon to surpass
american moviegoers and the american
economy as a whole so financially it
makes sense to want to do business with
a country that has that many people
but at what cost as we know disney works
with the chinese government to tune
their scripts now which
i mean you'd think church and state film
and state but ever since this incident
which the top dogs at disney called a
mistake and
apologized to china for disney has
fallen in line and makes
any changes that the government sees fit
they sought out to not just broadcast
things overseas
but to build which came at the cost of
china having full control of the rides
the prices and even making sure their
parades at disney shanghai
were longer than any other disney park
as they collect all that data
and scorsese well he ended up making a
short film promo for a chinese casino as
well
pretty much the stars dicaprio and de
niro staying at a hotel which
it didn't even exist the whole thing is
a cgi as they fight to see who's going
to star in marty's new movie
it was only 15 minutes long but they got
big bucks for it
and they market it as a short and shot
it in america because it's
technically illegal to make an ad for
casinos in china but hey in the end
it seemed like all those chinese
troubles went away because theme parks
meanwhile there's the story of mulan i
can explain
as is the case with every movie there
are different themes that stand out to
different people but
the story really is very patriotic it's
not just playing on the idea that the
army didn't realize she's a woman but
that she's chinese she's one of them
it was less about her looking feminine
and more that she just didn't look like
the bad guys
nationalism is a staple throughout all
of the incarnations of mulan but in the
animation you really see the importance
of the flags it's
in the intro it's all over the
background and there's really that sense
of duty to serve your country a single
grain of rice can tip this scale
one man may be the difference between
victory and defeat
is it americanized for sure and that's
another reason why i bombed in china but
the themes of being acknowledged for our
true selves knowing that we're not
defined by how others see us
is easier when you're not beholden by
your family and ancestors
your great-granddaughter had to be a
cross-dresser i think there is a big
difference between the cultures that set
apart a room in their homes for the
elderly
as opposed to those who rush them into
nursing homes and with that it does come
a bunch of other traditions that
eventually clash with a modern way of
thinking
and it's in those moments when the
anxiety of this honor kicks in not to
mention they'll lose the farm
so as an animated clash of western and
eastern values i think it was successful
the whole premise is that they're
gathering young men to serve in the army
and mulan's father volunteers as tribute
since he's the only male
when really he needs life alert so mulan
tries to take her father's place but
can't because
you dishonor me so instead her purpose
is for marriage and they literally even
have her audition for it
with a matchmaker setting it all up or
as people know her today
tinder they have failed to raise
a good thought luckily an app doesn't
shame me like this
at least publicly but that's what builds
to one of the best scenes in the
animated film that involves her cutting
her hair which was
cut from the 2020 cut like this clip has
5.8 million views on youtube and you
thought people did it
oh they did it in china then what are
y'all remaking
the pleasurable the indestructible
mushu is definitely the most
americanized part in the animation
following the footsteps of aladdin which
found success by having robin williams
do his thing
regardless of the egyptian setting and
so eddie murphy came in and got to say
as
many jokes as he wanted to ping ping was
my best friend growing up it's ping
ping because ping did steal my mushu is
a demoted family guardian who's
practically an alarm clock for the
ancestors when we meet him but after
breaking the stone dragon who's meant to
guard mulan he decides to take its place
working alongside the lucky cricket and
guiding mulan on her journey and i've
always loved the scene where mushu picks
up people in the snow ride down because
it's one of the many that showcases the
different techniques and lengths they
went to in the animation
to get these scenes that i still think
hold up to this day
and faux plain allowed us to take each
of these levels of artwork that we have
and sculpt the artwork and now as you
push your camera through those levels of
artwork it really feels
a lot more dimensional but it still
looks like artwork so it's somewhere
halfway in between the idea of something
that's completely flat that you're
moving a camera through
and something that's entirely
three-dimensional as mulan trains she
also forms a well-rounded relationship
with a couple of the soldiers
who at first she gets into a scuffle
with you know they start low but that's
only to build up the camaraderie that
they have
until they beat up all the bad guys they
have a great musical number that disney
loves so much they even
use it again in the sequel but damn did
they disrespect them when the tables
turn
concubines ugly concubines
captain lee shang
lee shang is the army captain who trains
mulan in order to save him
and boy is built like markiplier he was
voiced by bd wong for the english
version and jackie chan for the chinese
dub but the singing voice is exactly the
person i'd expect to sing
for a guy who's fallen for another dude
donnie osmond i can explain
so it's true like i said the action
sequences they drew up i think rival the
million dollar live-action ones and that
includes their villain who i felt was
even more menacing as a cartoon
how many men does it take to deliver a
message
one and i think the reason mulan has
resonated with so many people
is because the ending is different than
all the other disney princesses instead
of waiting to be saved by a prince
charming
she saves him she paved her own way for
herself her family and her country
and in the end actually got the credit
thank you sign me up for the next war
for mulan 2 they turned it into like the
honeymoon movie where mulan gets married
and
gets us straight to vhs equal you don't
meet a girl like
that every dynasty like many classics it
didn't really carry the same weight
especially since they couldn't afford
eddie so they got
mark mosley to do the voice for mushu
they're together
together together don't you understand
chinese and to give the man credit
he has done all sort of video games and
all the extra voice work for donkey as
well
most of the sequel really is just mushu
seeing it as a w since he claims credit
for them
getting together and it's put the
matchmaker out of business but when he
realizes that it's not in his favor
he's just trying the whole movie to
sabotage them they're always fighting
even though at the end he marries them
and somehow unites the kingdoms
the real story is the parallel one going
on where these women are getting married
off because of the emperor's daughters
and you see the parallels to the first
and why they look up to milan who's
willing to even take their place that my
duty is to my heart
my duty is to my heart
yes obviously it's nowhere near the
quality of the first one but it still
kept
the same themes of finding one's true
self while also looking out for your
entire country
and stuffing as many mushu one-liners as
they could but when it came to the 2020
version
disney finally had the chance to put
even more money into this timeless tale
even though it ironically contradicted
the legend itself but first
listen
[Music]
so disney didn't really make that much
money with mulan so you know their
interns are going to be on youtube
claiming videos to scrap up every penny
they can
so big shout out to surfsharkvpn for
sponsoring this video and helping people
navigate the internet with all the
censorship we've been talking about
there's really no better time to have
one and these guys are really big on
access not being tied to nationality
with all the internet surveillance that
leads to the mining of our data
surfshark helps keep you protected all
with just one click of a button you want
to be more anonymous online than ping
surfshark tired of all those pesky ads
that listen in on you more than mushu
surf shark say you're in a country and a
movie was released about your culture
but you're geo-blocked
then probably don't watch that movie but
if you want to surfshark with it you can
protect your search history and all your
browsing that way you don't bring
dishonor on you
dishonor on your family they even offer
a 30 day money back guarantee so if
you're interested in getting a vpn and
want to support the channel
head over to that searchshark.deals let
me explain and use promo code let me
explain to get 83
off plus a whole three months for free
so shout out to sir shark for sponsoring
this video and helping us tackle
subjects
that not even the mouse wants to face
so in 2020 alone there were four mulan
movies besides disney's there are two
other live action adaptations with one
actually taking place 10 years after the
main events
or the roarings attack again and there
may even be a more curvy shang
there's even a chinese animated film
called kung fu mulan that said
it's also 20 20 so for disney to go the
plush route is is a pretty big deal
now instead of dropping the money for
everyone's tickets in your family and
taking on a loan for popcorn you can add
a couple of profiles and now you've got
it early and you can watch it multiple
times
unlike previous releases which banked on
kids renting it over and over
which ain't it funny amc lost it over
trolls and then didn't say anything when
oh it's owned by china sadly even though
the model can be good that doesn't mean
the movie was
at least you know i thought it was okay
not terrible but for 200 million dollars
you don't want an okay movie it is the
first disney blockbuster with an all
asian cast which is dope they dropped
over 200 million dollars on this making
nikki carl i believe the fourth woman
with a budget over a hundred million
much less too and when you look at how
many projects have been made and you do
the math
it's pretty bad like brian singer alone
has been given more 100 million dollar
budgets
than the total number of women have and
if you know brian
you shouldn't be trusting that man with
anything even with all that money
it is still disney and i don't know that
they still give their filmmakers the
same freedom that they used to
we let the movie find itself so that's
why it was tough in the beginning
because
we were searching for a style you know
we struggled for a very long time
remember
some of us are on the movie for five
years and all of that is worked out like
months before we keep refining it and
keep refining it so
when we get on set and we've only got a
certain amount of hours to do our work
that we're not going oh what if we did
this or what if we did this
we thought about you know let's teach
all the painters how to paint watercolor
so we stretched watercolor paper and got
all together and we bought chinese
brushes and we learned inks and it was
very difficult
to teach you know a team of 30 artists
how to do watercolor
this movie was not made like that with a
studio and property as big as this to me
it just feels like the coaches lebron
brings in for the team you know
i do believe something can have positive
attributes something can be monumental
and then at the same time be associated
or do things that bring it down
it is a remake of the disney property
but they didn't want it to be like the
animation so they cut the music
and the more cartoony parts so that they
can be you know more authentic to the
original tale
and then weren't authentic to the
original tale shang was rearranged so he
wouldn't be mulan superior you know in
that way they would get cancelled by
western audiences when they showcased
their romance
very well but you are my equal
but then chinese audiences didn't really
like the romance aspect so they cut the
kissing that they were leading up to
now for the shank fans this must be a
zero out of ten because they took away
his status in order to get the girl
then he didn't get the girl and i was
just singing and barely even fights
i think we you know on top of stunt
training which was like maybe two to
three hours a day we also do two to
three hours
not for me they introduced a new
character when the original was just a
hawk but has been fleshed out to
correlate with mulan's powers
it is mulan i worry about they'll call
her
witch not twitch
warrior she has a pretty close
relationship with mulan and i think
these were the strongest scenes as they
test mulan's inner thoughts
but then she like i don't know her
sacrifices herself for mulan even though
i feel like with her powers she had
several other options but i guess they
couldn't have two women by the end of it
bori khan and the bad guys were changed
since you know americans know the hunts
but the roarings were more accurate to
have during this time period
so they got my man who went from voicing
david and lilo and stitch
to be in the big bad and they also
swapped it so that he was the son
of the man the emperor killed giving it
more of that revenge angle
i know you can complain about the
authenticity in both but at least
you know one isn't as dry and aims to be
enjoyable i just feel like the 2020
version is definitely a product
trying to appease as many people as
possible so even though they cut the
music
they still put the jingles in there it's
in the score just to blueball you
mushu was swapped with a westernized
phoenix who guides her in her journey
they cut around scenes to make the dad
more sympathetic
they swapped the comedic relief of the
grandma for a little sister who could
have been cool and they could have added
a lot of nuance there
and she just doesn't like spiders you
know for those spiders
i am matched what's he like he's
handsome a little shy but he's not
afraid of spiders
in fact they actually have a quote out
there where they actually said she is
just there to show you what mulan
isn't like i haven't seen a sister in a
feature film get disrespected like this
in a while that's the thing with disney
though and these big product machines
in the quest to satisfy everyone they
just keep watering it down
even the horse community was livid there
was also a lot of production stuff that
i just felt were weird considering the
budget
like the editing feels like a much tank
video they zoom in more than i do
trying to not trigger the disney claim
bottom footage and in terms of the
action it is cool that this is the first
to be pg-13 in their live action movies
and they almost get the mark right there
i know they were paying homage with
their wire work but
you know at 200 million dollars y'all
look like a netflix original series
i do like how they flip mulan aiming the
fireworks at the mountain to her duping
the bad guys and starting the avalanche
instead
but seeing some of her moves it made me
wonder if this insert was less her
feeling the rumble
and instead of starting it then
magically getting away on her horse
for some reason they decided to take the
concept of chi as more of a chosen one
midichlorian type way and that character
who we saw earned it in the animation
is kind of just born with it in this one
the boundless energy of life itself
your chi is strong
but she is for warriors
not daughters everyone sees it you must
have she is powerful watching
why do you hide it legit there's even a
scene where her spidey senses tingle and
she catches a bunch of plates and
well i know it can't be too violent you
know i'm not expecting disney's the raid
i was hoping to see more of that warrior
aspect and her training
not this force that just makes her
special for example ranyon who plays the
sergeants in mulan was also in the paper
tigers which i just caught at fantasia
and that had much better choreography
while also intertwining it with the
culture and the ideas of lineage all
while having a fraction of the cost she
does a lot of funny things like just
watching her people die for a straight
minute and she contemplates what to do
like literally there's also her big
moment when she comes out as mulan but
she takes off all her armor which can
you imagine anyone coming into a
football game with no pads
girly is rushing into war i think at 200
mil the way they cut it up is so ugly
that it ruins a lot of the action
sequences like you don't even get
two seconds of one frame they took out
the pull clip from the animation which
sets up her big sequence in the third
act
but after seeing the sequence in the
third act no wonder
they have the roarings doing 100 meter
dashes up the wall and yet
with such a big budget the most
effective moments were when they use
shadows when she dupes the bad guys by
using her own team's helmets like
honestly it's all the things blumhouse
could afford
that said you know danian came in and
did his thing
like the camera was struggling to catch
this man's bad side and keep it in the
pg range
they also had jet li play the emperor
which you know meant he sat for most of
the movie but i was surprised to see him
considering his most previous comments
but
he said he signed on because his
daughters wanted to see him in such a
massive role
a cool little cameo was having ming na
when the original voice actors from
mulan show up
dressed to look like mulan as well in
order to pass down the torch but
honestly it's still yours i've heard a
lot of people praise lewin or other
performances and
i guess i need a copy of those projects
because she was just okay here
i mean i guess she does a decent job
considering she has to act like someone
who doesn't want the citizens of china
to be oppressed
but for two hours i swear it was just
this is my sad face
this is my curious face and i'm confused
so while i believe a story like this
deserves its budget i wish it was used
better you know they introduced new
things but just didn't go all the way
but more than anything i wish disney
learned to pick a side
now things are a little different from
the 90s most hollywood productions take
china into account during pre-production
already because they know it's a lot of
butts and seats while a lot of them are
still sending in their scripts for
approval
more and more actually have chinese
censors on set with a big debate being
that
we should know as the audience which
ones are being involved
they already have a ban on the three t's
meaning that no major production or
even any other related films can talk
about them without china coming down
on the studio as a whole they had iron
man use a vivo phone which
tech mogul would never use since it's
like china's boost mobile but it helped
push the government's plan to have
more people on those devices the red
dawn remake swapped the villains from
being chinese to north korean
after the movie was shot and in many
cases they're ready to blacklist anyone
who protests against them
international settings are cool you know
and seeing different actors from all
around the globe is awesome
even when the ads get annoying but it's
when literal story lines are altered
and in cases made to be cut away just to
appease political powers
that it does alter the entire
movie-going experience it is altering
the economy
and honestly for many the way they think
from mulan the biggest debacle was that
they actually credited the government
who
we already know has to say on the script
like this is the opposite of the gods
not dead credits which listed court
cases
because here you search these up and
most of them have cases
with all the atrocities from chinese
officials who are pressing
and re-educating people in camps the
credits include their police force the
governments
and even their publicity agents that
push out propaganda so much so
they barred the press to cover this
movie and when you think about it
there's no reason for them to even film
in that part of china other than china
wanting them to give them a shout out
like you know it's bad when even trump
said don't do business with them
and disney was like eh pretty much
disney's like texaco during world war
ii and the mouse wants its cheese lebron
had to be nice to china
you know like usually he like is really
politically active but
he couldn't say anything because of
space jam
and i've been saying this since coco a
pixar movie that had a white dude
directing but
also had a crew who knew about the
culture that the film doesn't need to be
perfect
but it should first and foremost respect
what it's depicting
milan 2020 not only had money in mind
first but they still had people studying
abroad instead of
i don't know hiring people who already
know it it's all meant to be
entertainment sure
but the scariest things to watch isn't
the remakes not living up to the
originals
but the company not standing up for what
they claim in 1998
disney was willing to risk mulan's box
office to go against china's censorship
and they even made a feature where
nobody else would about how oppressive
the country was
to its own people and in 2020
they thanked them in the credits
disgrace thank you guys for watching
this video and i get a big shout out to
surf shark for sponsoring and for
helping out with the channel
you know it sucks that we have to wait
like another 20 years for a good big
budget version of mulana come out
or at least like you know with disney
with them having like the most money to
do it but you know
i think audiences are just becoming more
aware that they're being targeted by
demographics you know
i've always talked on the idea that
treating actors like set dressing and
not having the core
be authenticity but instead you know
these big businesses knowing that they
can get new butts and seats if they have
people who
look like them on screen and by disney
zone admission that's exactly what
they've done with this
project uh i want to give a shout out to
david chan who has an interesting video
they were talking about how they noticed
a different accents in the movie which
you know being latino i've seen a lot of
movies where hollywood tries to pass off
an argentinian person as a mexican or a
spaniard as a puerto rican like they
give grave insight in that video
on the idea of that mix that while it is
awkward you know
probably as a native speaker that it
also reinforces the nationality aspect
of what they're pushing for with the
story of mulan but
you know i think it's coming down to a
time where whoever we know this
whoever's funding these movies is going
to have the biggest say on them
and that's why you have things like
warcraft where yeah it's cgi so it could
literally be dubbed for any single
country
or you have the idea that china doesn't
like ghosts so
there may be a lot of movies dealing
with ghosts that won't get big budgets
if they can't make that profit overseas
and you know then you take into account
all the movies that refuse to be
censored
and now they're owned by the mouse so i
don't know where that's gonna go
um but you know the movie is gonna come
out on disney plus regularly i believe
in november and
that way you can catch it uh on the side
and scroll past it maybe but
i'm curious to know your thoughts down
below in the comment section uh which
you preferred if there was things that
stood out to you
if you're like a big defender of the
newest one if there's anything that you
think people are missing let me know
down below until next time
don't forget to comment like and
subscribe and stream the live action
wendy wu instead